1725mf sat 11may2024
My attempt to recollect the use of avrdude

avrdude is a command used to perform memory operation on an mcu (microcontroller), specifically an AVR microcontroller like the atmega328p microcontroller.

Typically, there are five flags used with the avrdude command, they are:

1. memory operation type flag, -U: this flag is used to give details on the type of memory operation to be performed.
  - e.g "-U "
2. programmer flag, -c: this flag is used to indicate what type of programmer would be used.
3. partno flag, -p: part number indicates the been operated on.
4. port flag, -P: this indicates the port to use to connect your desktop or laptop computer to the programmer used to perform memory operation on the mcu
5. baudrate flag, -b: this flag is used to indicate what baudrate to use in the transmission of the data between the programmer and the desktop or laptop computer. I am still somewhat confused on what baudrate is.


Now, a typically avrdude command would be like:
avrdude filename.hex -U :w:hex -p atmega328p -c arduino -P portname -b 115200

Oops! I am wrong o!
let me try again
avrdude -U flash:w:filename.hex:i -p atmega328p -c arduino -P portname -b 115200

Voila! I got it this time around!
Omo, I suffered o! Because I neglected mcu programming for about 2 or more months, I totally forgot what I was already familiar with. It has taken me a couple of day to even manage to write a painfully few lines of code (maybe 5 lines plus or minus lines minus comment) not to even blink an LED, but just to send electric current to a LED.

I have not even flash it to my Arduino Nano yet. I just hope that it works.
